---
title:  "Appendix G.22"
author: "ormgpmd"
date:   "20220211"
output: html_document
knit:   (
            function(input_file, encoding) {
                out_dir <- '';
                rmarkdown::render(
                    input_file,
                    encoding=encoding,
                    output_file=file.path(dirname(input_file), out_dir,
                    'G_22.html')
                )
            }
        )
---

## G.22 Incorporation of the MOE Permit-To-Take-Water database

* Tables
    + D_LOCATION
    + D_LOCATION_PURPOSE
    + D_LOCATION_QA
    + D_PTTW
    + D_PTTW_RELATED
    + D_PTTW_RELATED_SRC
    + R_PTTW_SOURCEID_CODE
    + R_PTTW_WATER_SOURCE_CODE

* Estimated Recurrence Time: yearly (or better)

Refer to Section 2.3.8 for details concerning the format and mapping of the
PTTW data source format to that of the ORMGP database.

Here, we describe the process by which this information is incorporated.  Note
that almost all processing is accomplished through a separate relational
database system outside of the MSSQL environment (except in certain cases,
which will be noted).

#### G.22.0 Determine Those Records to be Examined (for the ORMGP Study Area)

***Existing records (00a)***

Extract all existing PTTW records that have previously been imported.  These
are written to a temporary database then incorporated in the PTTW project.

    select
    dloc.loc_id
    ,dp.pttw_permit_number
    ,dp.pttw_issueddate
    into temphold.dbo.pttw_all_20210604
    from 
    oak_20160831_master.dbo.d_location as dloc
    inner join oak_20160831_master.dbo.d_pttw as dp
    on dloc.loc_id=dp.loc_id
    where 
    loc_type_code=22

*Query: 00a_PTTW_All_src_code*

***Nullify fields in source database (00b)***

Empty fields should be converted to a NULL (or nodata) value.  There will be
many fields affected, only a single example is provided.

    update [Database_20210607]
    set
    [Expired_by]=null
    where 
    [Expired_by]=' '

*Query: 00b_Nullify_Source*

***PTTW records within the ORMGP study area (00c)***

Create geometries for reach record in the source data using the latitude and
longitude fields (so as to avoid any UTM zone issues).  Use these to delimit
these records to the ORMGP study area (with a buffer).  A spatial exercise,
the code for doing so is not shown here.

*Query: 00c_Coordinates_Study_Area*

***PTTW client names - Optional (00d)***

In the case of the 20210607 PTTW database, some processing had been done with
the 20210401 PTTW database.  The client names and permit numbers in the latter
were used to updated the former.  This will generally not be a usual step in
regular processing.

*Query: 00d_PTTW_Clientname*

#### G.22.1 Determine Those Records to be Incorporated

***Current data (01a)***

Create a query to pull the PTTW_PERMIT_NUMBER and PTTW_ISSUEDDATE fields
from the existing data.

    select 
    [PTTW_PERMIT_NUMBER] as [NAME]
    ,[PTTW_ISSUEDDATE] as [PERMIT_ISSUED_DATE]
    from 
    [pttw_all_20210604]
    group by 
    [PTTW_PERMIT_NUMBER],[PTTW_ISSUEDDATE]

*Query: 01a_QCMP_DB*

***New data (01b)***

Create a query to pull the PTTW_PERMIT_NUMBER and PTTW_ISSUEDDATE fields for
the new data.

    select 
    [PERMITNO]
    ,[ISSUEDDATE]
    ,1 as [present]
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP]
    group by 
    [PERMITNO],[ISSUEDDATE]

*Query: 01b_QCMB_New*

***Comparison table (01c)***

Create a new table that relates the new versus the current permit records
using the queries as a source.  Add a key field to this table.

    select 
    [01b_QCMB_New].*
    into TCMP_DB_and_New_20210607
    from 
    [01b_QCMB_New]
    inner join [01a_QCMP_DB]
    on [01b_QCMB_New].[PERMITNO]=[01a_QCMP_DB].[NAME] and [01b_QCMB_New].[ISSUEDDATE]=[01a_QCMP_DB].[PERMIT_ISSUED_DATE]

*Query:: 01c_QCMB_DB_and_New*

***Presently loaded (01d)***

Add a *present* field to the new dataset and mark those (with a value of *1*)
that are already present in the current database.

    update 
    (
    select
    d.rkey
    ,d.present
    ,t.present as present_upd
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP] as d
    inner join 
    (
    select 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP].[rkey]
    ,[TCMP_DB_and_New_20210607].[present]
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP]
    inner join [TCMP_DB_and_New_20210607]
    on [Database_20210607_ORMGP].[PERMITNO]=[TCMP_DB_and_New_20210607].[PERMITNO] 
    and [Database_20210607_ORMGP].[ISSUEDDATE]=[TCMP_DB_and_New_20210607].[ISSUEDDATE]
    ) as t
    on d.rkey=t.rkey
    ) as t2
    set
    present=present_upd

*Query: 01d_QCMP_Present*

Check if the ISSUEDDATE is null and compare those permit numbers to those
currently in the database.  Include them as appropriate.  (This code is not
shown.)

*Query: 01e_QCMP_Null*

#### G.22.2 Check for Duplicates

***Find duplicates (02a)***

Add a *duplicate* field to the new data table.  Create a query to pull those
records that can be considered duplicates based upon the examined fields.

    select 
    t.[PERMITNO]
    ,t.[rcount]
    ,t.rkey_min
    ,t.rkey_max
    from 
    (
    select 
    [PERMITNO]
    ,min([rkey]) as rkey_min
    ,max([rkey]) as rkey_max
    ,count(*) as rcount
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP]
    where 
    [present] is null
    and [duplicate] is null
    group by 
    [PERMITNO]
    ,[CLIENTNAME]
    ,[PURPOSECAT]
    ,[SPURPOSE]
    ,[EXPIRYDATE]
    ,[ISSUEDDATE]
    ,[RENEWDATE]
    ,[OLDCTYTWN]
    ,[P_LOT]
    ,[P_CON]
    ,[P_MUNICIP]
    ,[P_UPPERT]
    ,[P_LOWERT]
    ,[SURFGRND]
    ,[SOURCEID]
    ,[EASTING]
    ,[NORTHING]
    ,[UTMZONE]
    ,[MAXL_DAY]
    ,[DAYS_YEAR]
    ,[HRS_DAYMAX]
    ,[L_MINUTE]
    ,[AMENDED_BY]
    ,[EXPIRED_BY]
    ,[ACTIVE]
    ,[PERMIT_END]
    ) as t
    where 
    t.rcount>1

*Query: 02a_QDuplicates_Check*

***Mark duplicates (02b)***

Mark those records (with the largest *key* value) as the duplicate.  This may
need to be run-though more than once.  These records will not be included in
the import process.

This will create a temporary table:

    select
    d.rkey
    ,q.rkey_max
    into dup_to_mark
    from 
    [Database_20200519] as d
    inner join [02a_QDuplicates_Check] as q
    on d.rkey=q.rkey_max

Followed by the actual update:

    update (
    select
    d.rkey
    ,d.permitno
    ,d.duplicate
    from 
    [Database_20200519] as d
    inner join [dup_to_mark] as m
    on d.rkey=m.rkey
    ) as t
    set
    duplicate=1

*Query: 02b_QDuplicates_Mark*

***Subset new data (02c)***

Create a subset of the new dataset that will be processed and imported into
the current database.  This includes those that:

* Occur with the ORMGP study area
* Are not already present in the current database
* Are not duplicate records

    select
    d.*
    into Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP] as d
    where 
    [present] is null
    and [study_area]=1 
    and [duplicate] is null

*Query: 02c_QSubset*

#### G.22.3 Processing of New Data

##### G.22.3a Owner/Client Information

***Copy D_OWNER (03aa)***

Create a local copy of D_OWNER for ease of processing.

    select
    [OWN_ID], [OWN_NAME], [OWN_TYPE_CODE]
    into d_owner_20210607
    from 
    [CL2K16-OAK_20160831_MASTER_mdsql]::[dbo.D_OWNER]

*Query: 03aa_Get_D_OWNER*

***Match owner to client (03ab)***

Check the owner information versus the client information in the new dataset.
Record the results in a new table (add a new key and index the clientname to
this new table).

    select
    d.rkey
    ,o.own_id
    ,o.own_name
    into TMAT_match_own_id
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    inner join [d_owner_20210607] as o
    on d.[ClientName]=o.[OWN_NAME]

*Query: 03ab_Get_OWN_ID*

***Check duplicate owners (03ac)***

Check for any duplicates in the owners table (as we're going to use this as a lookup table).

    select
    tmat.*
    --into TMAT_match_own_id_dup
    from 
    [TMAT_match_own_id] as tmat
    inner join 
    (
    select
    t.rkey
    from 
    ( select rkey, count(*) as rcount from [TMAT_match_own_id] group by rkey ) as t
    where 
    t.rcount>1
    ) as t2
    on tmat.rkey=t2.rkey

Remove these duplicates.

    delete from [TMAT_match_own_id]
    where
    mfd_id in
    (
    select
    max( mfd_id ) as mfd_id
    from 
    [TMAT_match_own_id_dup] as dt
    group by
    rkey,own_id
    )

*Query: 03ac_Remove_OWN_ID*

***Include OWN_ID in new data table (03ad)***

Add the OWN_ID into the new data table and populate it from the (just created)
look-up table.

    update (
    select
    d.rkey
    ,m.own_id as own_id_new
    ,d.own_id
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    inner join [TMAT_match_own_id] as m
    on d.rkey=m.rkey
    ) as t
    set
    own_id=own_id_new

*Query: 03ad_Update_Match*

***Unmatched Owners/Clients (03ae)***

Get the unmatched owners/clients and add these to a separate table.

    select
    --count(*)
    [mfd_id]
    ,[rkey]
    ,cast( null as int32 ) as own_id_upd
    ,[ClientName]
    into TDIST_own_id_20210607
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset]
    where 
    own_id is null
    and clientname is not null

Review these to see if any of these should be manually assigned.  
Compile a list of the new owners to include in D_OWNER.

    select
    distinct([ClientName]) as own_name
    ,cast( null as int32 ) as own_id
    into [TDIST_own_id_add_20210607]
    from 
    [TDIST_own_id_20210607]
    where 
    [own_id_upd] is null

Assemble those who are to be added to the D_OWNER table.

    update TDIST_own_id_add_20210607
    set
    own_id=t2.own_id
    from 
    TDIST_own_id_add_20210607 as d
    inner join
    (
    select
    t.own_id
    ,row_number() over (order by t.own_id) as rkey
    from 
    (
    select
    top 150
    v.new_id as own_id
    from 
    oak_20160831_master.dbo.v_sys_random_id_bulk_001 as v
    where 
    v.new_id not in
    ( select own_id from oak_20160831_master.dbo.d_owner )
    ) as t
    ) as t2
    on d.mfd_id=t2.rkey

We'll use a new DATA_Id for this PTTW import.  Use this same DATA_ID to mark
the new owners that are being added.  Insert these into D_OWNER.

    insert into oak_20160831_master.dbo.d_owner
    ( own_id, own_name, data_id )
    select
    own_id
    ,own_name
    ,240095125 as data_id
    from 
    TDIST_own_id_add_20210607

Get a new copy of the D_OWNER table to use for reference.

    select
    [OWN_ID], [OWN_NAME], [OWN_TYPE_CODE]
    into d_owner_20210607b
    from 
    [CL2K16-OAK_20160831_MASTER_mdsql]::[dbo.D_OWNER]

Then assemble the OWN_ID values to update the new PTTW dataset.

    select
    t.mfd_id
    ,t.rkey
    ,t.own_id_upd
    ,t.clientname
    ,d.own_id
    ,d.own_name
    into TDIST_own_id_upd_20210607
    from 
    [TDIST_own_id_20210607] as t
    inner join [d_owner_20210607b] as d
    on t.clientname= d.own_name
    where 
    t.own_id_upd is null

And, finally, update the OWN_ID field in the temporary table in the new
dataset.

    update
    (
    select
    t1.mfd_id
    ,t1.own_id_upd
    ,t2.own_id
    from 
    [TDIST_own_id_20210607] as t1
    inner join [TDIST_own_id_upd_20210607] as t2
    on t1.mfd_id=t2.mfd_id
    ) as t
    set
    t.own_id_upd=t.own_id

Check especially those OWN_IDs not updated due to field truncation (in the
text fields).

*Query: 03ae_Unmatched_Owner*

***Update OWN_ID (03af)***

Finally, update the OWN_ID in the table containing the subset of information
to be loaded into the current database.

    update (
    select
    d.mfd_id
    ,t.mfd_id
    ,d.own_id
    ,t.own_id_upd
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    inner join [TDIST_own_id_20210607] as t
    on d.[rkey]=t.[rkey]
    where
    d.own_id is null
    ) as t
    set
    own_id=own_id_upd

*Query: 03af_Update_OWN_ID*

##### G.22.3b Primary and Secondary Purposes

***Get the primary purpose (03ba)***

Determine the primary purpose codes for the records in the new dataset.
Look for null values that need to be corrected.

    select
    t.pname
    ,rppc.[PURPOSE_PRIMARY_CODE]
    ,rppc.[PURPOSE_PRIMARY_DESCRIPTION]
    from 
    (
    select
    distinct([PURPOSECAT]) as pname
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset]
    ) as t
    left outer join [R_PURPOSE_PRIMARY_CODE] as rppc
    on t.pname=rppc.[PURPOSE_PRIMARY_DESCRIPTION]

*Query: 03ba_QDistinct_Purp_Prim*

Get the secondary purpose codes for the records in the new dataset.  Look for
null values that need to be corrected.

    select
    t2.sname
    ,case
    when purpose_secondary_code_1 is not null then purpose_secondary_code_1
    else purpose_secondary_code_2
    end as PURPOSE_SECONDARY_CODE
    ,case 
    when purpose_secondary_code_1 is not null then purpose_secondary_description
    else purpose_secondary_alt_code
    end as PURPOSE_SECONDARY_DESCRIPTION
    from 
    (
    select
    t.sname
    ,rpsc1.[PURPOSE_SECONDARY_CODE] as PURPOSE_SECONDARY_CODE_1
    ,rpsc1.[PURPOSE_SECONDARY_DESCRIPTION]
    ,rpsc2.[PURPOSE_SECONDARY_CODE] as PURPOSE_SECONDARY_CODE_2
    ,rpsc2.[PURPOSE_SECONDARY_ALT_CODE]
    from 
    (
    select
    distinct([SPURPOSE]) as sname
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as s
    ) as t
    left outer join [R_PURPOSE_SECONDARY_CODE] as rpsc1
    on t.sname=rpsc1.[PURPOSE_SECONDARY_DESCRIPTION]
    left outer join [R_PURPOSE_SECONDARY_CODE] as rpsc2
    on t.sname=rpsc2.[PURPOSE_SECONDARY_ALT_CODE]
    ) as t2

*Query: 03bb_QDistinct_Purp_Sec*

##### G.22.3c Water Source Code (Groundwater, etc...)

***Get the water source code (03ca)***

    select
    [mfd_id]
    ,case
    when [SURFGRND] = 'Surface Water' then 2
    when [SURFGRND] = 'Ground Water' then 1
    when [SURFGRND] = 'Pumping Test' then 2
    when [SURFGRND] = 'Surface and Ground Water' then 3
    else null
    end as PTTW_WATER_SOURCE_CODE
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset]

*Query: 03ca_QDistinct_Get_Source_Code*

##### G.22.3d Water Source Identifer Code (Actual Source)

***Get the actual source (e.g. well, brook, etc...) (03da)***

Determine the actual source of the water by examination of the SOURCEID text
field (not shown).  Look for null values for correction.

*Query: 03da_QDist_SourceID_Code_All*

***Unassigned sources (03db)***

Examine the unassigned records and include in the *03da* code for correction.

    select
    *
    from 
    [03da_QDist_SourceID_Code_All]
    where
    [PTTW_SOURCEID_CODE]=51
    order by
    [PTTW_SOURCEID_OUOM]

*Query: 03db_QDist_SourceID_Code_Test*

##### G.22.3e Municipality

***Determine the municipality of the record (03ea)***

Determine the municpality for each record.  Note that this query calls another
(which in turn calls a third).

    select
    q.[MUNIC]
    ,q.[P_MUNICIP]
    ,r.[LOC_TOWNSHIP_ABBR]
    ,r.[LOC_TOWNSHIP_CODE]
    ,r.[LOC_TOWNSHIP_DESCRIPTION]
    ,r.[LOC_COUNTY_CODE]
    into TDIST_P_MUNICIP_Match_20210607
    from 
    [03ea_SRC_QDist_P_MUNICIP_Single] as q
    inner join [R_LOC_TOWNSHIP_CODE-ALT] as r
    on StringToLowerCase(q.[MUNIC])=StringToLowerCase(r.[LOC_TOWNSHIP_ABBR])
    where 
    [LOC_TOWNSHIP_ABBR] <> '-9999'

*Query: 03ea_QDist_P_MUNICIP_Match*

This finds the single municipality in the text field.

    select
    case
    when StringRegexpFind([P_MUNICIP],'~','i')>-1 then StringSubstringLen([P_MUNICIP],0,StringRegexpFind([P_MUNICIP],'~','i'))
    when StringRegexpFind([P_MUNICIP],',','i')>-1 then StringSubstringLen([P_MUNICIP],0,StringRegexpFind([P_MUNICIP],',','i'))
    --when StringRegexpFind([P_MUNICIP],'\s+\d','i')>-1 then StringSubstringLen([P_MUNICIP],0,StringRegexpFind([P_MUNICIP],'\s+\d','i'))
    else [P_MUNICIP]
    end as MUNIC
    ,[P_MUNICIP]
    from 
    [03ea_SRC_QDist_P_MUNICIP_Distinct]

*Query: 03ea_SRC_QDist_P_MUNICIP_Single*

While this finds the distinct records based upon the text field.

    select
    distinct([P_MUNICIP]) as P_MUNICIP
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset]

*Query: 03ea_SRC_QDist_P_MUNICIP_Distinct*

##### G.22.4 Permits Ammended-By and Expired-By

Note that this is a query only.  Appendix G.22.99b uses this as a source.

***Assemble the related (and inverse related) permits (04a)***

This query calls source queries to determine those permits that are related
through their amended-by or expired-by fields.  Note that the *full* new
dataset is used for this comparison as previously loaded permit records may be
affected.

    select
    mfd_id
    ,mfd_id_orig
    ,permitno
    ,permitno_related
    ,cast( null as int32 ) as inverse_related
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_Expired]
    union
    select
    mfd_id
    ,mfd_id_orig
    ,permitno
    ,permitno_related
    ,cast( 1 as int32 ) as inverse_related
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_Expired_Inv]

*Query: 04a_QReleated_All*

This is the source query for amended and expired records (for the main *04a*
query).

    select
    t.*
    from 
    (
    select
    mfd_id
    ,mfd_id_orig
    ,[PERMITNO]
    ,[AMENDED_BY] as PERMITNO_RELATED
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_By_Inv]
    union
    select
    mfd_id
    ,mfd_id_orig
    ,[PERMITNO]
    ,[EXPIRED_BY] as PERMITNO_RELATED
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Expired_By_Inv]
    ) as t
    group by
    t.mfd_id,t.mfd_id_orig,t.[PERMITNO],t.PERMITNO_RELATED

*Query: 04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_Expired*

This calls

    select
    q.mfd_id
    ,d.mfd_id as mfd_id_orig
    ,q.[PERMITNO]
    ,q.[AMENDED_BY]
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_By] as q
    inner join [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    on q.[AMENDED_BY]=d.[PERMITNO]

*Query: 04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_By_Inv*

and 

    select
    q.mfd_id
    ,d.mfd_id as mfd_id_orig
    ,q.[PERMITNO]
    ,q.[EXPIRED_BY]
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Expired_By] as q
    inner join [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    on q.[EXPIRED_BY]=d.[PERMITNO]

*Query: 04a_SRC_QRelated_Expired_By_Inv*

This is the inverse related amended and expired records (for the main
*04a* query).

    select
    q.mfd_id_orig as mfd_id
    ,q.mfd_id as mfd_id_orig
    ,q.permitno_related as PERMITNO
    ,q.[PERMITNO] as PERMITNO_RELATED
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_Expired] as q
    group by
    q.mfd_id_orig,q.mfd_id,q.permitno_related,q.[PERMITNO]

*Query: 04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_Expired_Inv*

This calls

    select
    t.*
    from 
    (
    select
    mfd_id
    ,mfd_id_orig
    ,[PERMITNO]
    ,[AMENDED_BY] as PERMITNO_RELATED
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_By_Inv]
    union
    select
    mfd_id
    ,mfd_id_orig
    ,[PERMITNO]
    ,[EXPIRED_BY] as PERMITNO_RELATED
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Expired_By_Inv]
    ) as t
    group by
    t.mfd_id,t.mfd_id_orig,t.[PERMITNO],t.PERMITNO_RELATED

*Query: 04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_Expired*

which in turn calls

    select
    q.mfd_id
    ,d.mfd_id as mfd_id_orig
    ,q.[PERMITNO]
    ,q.[AMENDED_BY]
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_By] as q
    inner join [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    on q.[AMENDED_BY]=d.[PERMITNO]

*Query: 04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_By_Inv*

and

    select
    q.mfd_id
    ,d.mfd_id as mfd_id_orig
    ,q.[PERMITNO]
    ,q.[EXPIRED_BY]
    from 
    [04a_SRC_QRelated_Expired_By] as q
    inner join [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    on q.[EXPIRED_BY]=d.[PERMITNO]

*Query: 04a_SRC_QRelated_Expired_By_Inv*

Note that the following queries are used as sources as well.

    select
    d.mfd_id
    ,d.[PERMITNO]
    ,d.[AMENDED_BY]
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    where 
    StringLength(d.[AMENDED_BY])>0

*Query: 04a_SRC_QRelated_Amended_By*

    select
    [mfd_id]
    ,[PERMITNO]
    ,[EXPIRED_BY]
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset]
    where 
    StringLength([EXPIRED_BY])>0

*Query: 04a_SRC_QRelated_Expired_By*

##### G.22.99a Creation of Import Tables

This section numeric has been assigned *99* as it is the last series of steps
to be undertaken.  Other possible processing can be fitted in before this
section without having to re-number subsequent sections.

***Create D_LOCATION (99aa)***

We'll need to create the X and Y coordinates (projection UTM Zone 17, NAD83)
and include them in the source table (not shown).  In addition, a DATA_ID
needs to be added to the D_DATA_SOURCE table and included for each new
location record (as well as the additions to the D_OWNER table and PTTW
related tables).

An example is shown.

    insert into d_data_source
    ( data_id, data_type, data_description, data_filename )
    values 
    ( 508, 'PTTW', 'Permit To Take Water - Update 20210607', 'PermitsToTakeWater.xls (20210607); pttw_manipulation_m9_20210607.map' )

The new PTTW locations can then be created.

    select 
    cast(null as int32) as LOC_ID
    ,d.mfd_id
    ,cast([PERMITNO] as varchar) as LOC_NAME
    ,cast(22 as INT32) as LOC_TYPE_CODE
    ,d.x as LOC_COORD_EASTING
    ,d.y as LOC_COORD_NORTHING
    ,cast([P_LOT] as varchar) as LOC_CON
    ,cast([P_CON] as varchar) as LOC_LOT
    ,qmun.[LOC_COUNTY_CODE]
    ,qmun.[LOC_TOWNSHIP_CODE]
    ,[ACTIVE] as LOC_ACTIVE
    ,case
    when [ISSUEDDATE] = cast('1867-07-01' as datetime) then NULL
    else [ISSUEDDATE] 
    end as LOC_START_DATE
    ,case
    when [EXPIRYDATE] = cast('1867-07-01' as datetime) then NULL
    else [EXPIRYDATE] 
    end as LOC_END_DATE
    ,d.OWN_ID
    ,cast(508 as INT32) as DATA_ID
    ,cast(d.[P_MUNICIP] as varchar) as LOC_ADDRESS_INFO2
    ,cast(d.[P_UPPERT] as VARCHAR) as LOC_ADDRESS_INFO3
    ,cast(d.[P_LOWERT] as varchar) as LOC_ADDRESS_INFO4
    into PTTW_20210607_D_LOCATION
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    --***** This introduces duplicates; erase them
    left outer join [TDist_P_MUNICIP_Match] as qmun
    on d.[P_MUNICIP]=qmun.[P_MUNICIP]

*Query: 99a_QCreate_D_LOCATION*

***Create D_LOCATION_PURPOSE (99ab)***

The primary and secondary purposes can be assembled into D_LOCATION_PURPOSE.

    select
    cast(null as int32) as LOC_ID
    ,mfd_id
    ,[PURPOSE_PRIMARY_CODE]
    ,[PURPOSE_SECONDARY_CODE]
    into PTTW_20210607_D_LOCATION_PURPOSE
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    left outer join [03ba_QDistinct_Purp_Prim] as pp
    on d.[PURPOSECAT]=[pname]
    left outer join [03bb_QDistinct_Purp_Sec] as ps
    on d.[SPURPOSE]=[sname]

*Query: 99b_QCreate_D_LOCATION_PURPOSE*

***Create D_LOCATION_QA (99ac)***

Make sure that each location has valid coordinates.  Assign a *5* if so, a
*117* if not.

    select 
    cast(null as int32) as [LOC_ID]
    ,mfd_id
    ,case
    when d.x is null or d.y is null then 117
    else 5
    end as [QA_COORD_CONFIDENCE_CODE]
    into PTTW_20210607_D_LOCATION_QA
    from
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d

*Query: 99c_QCreate_D_LOCATION_QA*

***Create D_PTTW (99ad)***

This is the *master* table for the information particular to a PTTW location.
Note that in some cases, the *RenewDate* and *Permit_End* date columns are
numeric rather than datetime values.  This needs to be corrected before
import.

    select
    cast(null as int32) as LOC_ID
    ,d.mfd_id
    ,cast([PERMITNO] as varchar) as PTTW_PERMIT_NUMBER
    ,[PTTW_SOURCEID_CODE]
    ,cast( [PTTW_SOURCEID_OUOM] as varchar ) as PTTW_SOURCEID_OUOM
    ,qsc.[PTTW_WATER_SOURCE_CODE]
    ,cast( [AMENDED_BY] as varchar ) as PTTW_AMENDED_BY
    ,cast( [EXPIRED_BY] as varchar ) as PTTW_EXPIRED_BY
    ,d.[OWN_ID]
    ,[ISSUEDDATE] as PTTW_ISSUEDDATE
    ,case
    when [RENEWDATE_upd] is not null then NULL
    else [PERMIT_END_upd] 
    end as PTTW_PERMIT_END
    ,[EXPIRYDATE] as PTTW_EXPIRYDATE
    ,[RENEWDATE_upd] as PTTW_RENEWDATE
    ,[MAXL_DAY] as PTTW_MAX_L_DAY
    ,[DAYS_YEAR] as PTTW_MAX_DAYS_YEAR
    ,[HRS_DAYMAX] as PTTW_MAX_HRS_DAY
    ,[L_MINUTE] as PTTW_MAX_L_MINUTE
    into PTTW_20210607_D_PTTW
    from 
    [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as d
    left outer join [03da_QDist_SourceID_Code_All] as tsrcid
    on d.[mfd_id]=tsrcid.[mfd_id]
    left outer join [03ca_QDistinct_Get_Source_Code] as qsc
    on d.[mfd_id]=qsc.[mfd_id]

*Query: 99d_QCreate_D_PTTW*

***Create D_PTTW_RELATED (99ae)***

This creates the base PTTW related table using the *keys* from the source
instead of the actual permit numbers.  Note that this is will not be the relation 
between source locations (e.g. a well) and a PTTW record.

    select
    q.mfd_id as mfd_id_main
    ,q.mfd_id_orig
    ,cast(null as int32) as LOC_ID
    ,cast(null as int32) as LOC_ID_RELATED
    ,q.INVERSE_RELATED
    ,cast(null as int32) as SYS_RECORD_ID
    into TREL_assemble_20210607
    from 
    [04a_QRelated_All] as q

*Query: 99e_QCreate_D_PTTW_RELATED*

##### G.22.99b Creation of PTTW Relation Tables

***Create temporary relations (99ba)***

This assembles the related records into a temporary table to be used for
comparison.

    select
    p.mfd_id
    ,dm.permitno
    ,dm.amended_by
    ,dm.expired_by
    ,dr.permitno as permitno_dr
    ,dr.amended_by as amended_by_dr
    ,dr.expired_by as expired_by_dr
    into TREL_cmp_20210607
    from 
    [TREL_assemble_20210607] as p
    inner join [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as dm
    on p.mfd_id_main=dm.mfd_id
    inner join [Database_20210607_ORMGP_subset] as dr
    on p.mfd_id_orig=dr.mfd_id

*Query: 99ba_QRelated_CMP_Create*

***Assemble D_PTTW_RELATED format (99bb)***

This temporary table is then used to create the format of the D_PTTW_RELATED
table using this query.

    -- permitno and amended_by
    select
    t.permitno as permit
    ,t.amended_by as permit_rel
    ,cast(null as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where 
    t.amended_by is not null
    union
    -- permitno and amended_by inv
    select
    t.amended_by as permit
    ,t.permitno as permit_rel
    ,cast(1 as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where
    t.amended_by is not null
    union
    -- permitno and expired_by
    select
    t.permitno as permit
    ,t.expired_by as permit_rel
    ,cast(null as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where 
    t.expired_by is not null
    union
    -- permitno and expired_by inv
    select
    t.expired_by as permit
    ,t.permitno as permit_rel
    ,cast(1 as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where 
    t.expired_by is not null
    union
    -- permitno and permitno_dr
    select
    t.permitno as permit
    ,t.permitno_dr as permit_rel
    ,cast(null as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where 
    t.permitno_dr is not null
    union
    -- permitno and permitno_dr inv
    select
    t.permitno_dr as permit
    ,t.permitno as permit_rel
    ,cast(1 as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where 
    t.permitno_dr is not null
    union 
    -- permitno and amended_by_dr
    select
    t.permitno as permit
    ,t.amended_by_dr as permit_rel
    ,cast(null as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where 
    t.amended_by_dr is not null
    union
    -- permitno and amended_by_dr inv
    select
    t.amended_by_dr as permit
    ,t.permitno as permit_rel
    ,cast(1 as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where 
    t.amended_by_dr is not null
    union
    -- permitno and expired_by_dr
    select
    t.permitno as permit
    ,t.expired_by_dr as permit_rel
    ,cast(null as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where 
    t.expired_by_dr is not null
    union
    -- permitno and expired_by_dr inv
    select
    t.expired_by_dr as permit
    ,t.permitno as permit_rel
    ,cast(1 as int32) as inv
    from 
    [TREL_cmp_20210607] as t
    where 
    t.expired_by_dr is not null

*Query: 99bb_QRelated_CMP*

***Create the D_PTTW_RELATED table (99bc)***

Using *99bb* as source, creates the D_PTTW_RELATED table.

    select
    *
    into PTTW_20210607_D_PTTW_RELATED_all
    from 
    [99bb_QRelated_CMP]

*Query: 99bc_QRelated_CMP_Out*

##### G.22.99c Incorporate in Master Database

***Import tables (99ca)***

Incorporate the tables into the master db; note that we're assigned the new loc_id
to the loc_master_loc_id for now (not shown).  This includes population of all
requisite keys in comparison with the particular master db tables.

*Query: 99ca_QImport*

***Link to well locations (99cb)***

The PTTW_SOURCE_ID is examined for WWR or A-tag numbers that can be used to
link the PTTW record to a MOE borehole record (not shown).  The
LOC_MASTER_LOC_ID field of the PTTW location is updated to point to this
source location.  This is manually intensive.

*Query: 99cb_QLink_Source_ID*

***Link using a buffer (99cc)***

The spatial location of the PTTW is used (with a specified buffer) in
comparison with point locations in the master database (not shown).  These, after
examination, can be used as a link.  The LOC_MASTER_LOC_ID for the PTTW record
is updated for this purpose.

*Query: 99cc_QLink_Buffer*

##### G.22.99d D_PTTW_RELATED_SRC

This new table was implemented to capture the link between PTTW locations and
their source locations to supplement (and eventually replace) the use of the
LOC_MASTER_LOC_ID for the PTTW record (not shown).  In some cases, a single permit can
apply to multiple locations - this table allows us to capture these records.


