---
title:  "Appendix G.23"
author: "ormgpmd"
date:   "20220204"
output: html_document
knit:   (
            function(input_file, encoding) {
                out_dir <- '';
                rmarkdown::render(
                    input_file,
                    encoding=encoding,
                    output_file=file.path(dirname(input_file), out_dir,
                    'G_23.html')
                )
            }
        )
---

## G.23 Population of D_INTERVAL_MONITOR (Top and Bottom)

* Tables
    + D_INTERVAL_MONITOR 
    + D_LOCATION
    + D_BOREHOLE
    + D_BOREHOLE_CONSTRUCTION
    + D_INTERVAL
    + R_INT_TYPE_CODE

* Views 
    + None required (see query statements, below)

* Estimated Recurrence Time: various (generally upon data import) 

D_INTERVAL_MONITOR contains various screen information - of primary importance (here) are the depths/elevations of the interval/screen top and bottom.  Note that there should only be a single INT_ID row - no duplicate INT_IDs should be present.

A variety of screen 'types' are specified (as found in R_INT_TYPE_CODE; each
screen type is given a 'Screen' tag in the INT_TYPE_ALT_CODE field; refer also
to V_SYS_INT_TYPE_CODE_SCREEN).  They are:

* 18 - Reported Screen
* 19 - Assumed Screen (Overburden Well 1ft Screen Assigned)
* 20 - Reported Open Hole
* 21 - Assumed Open Hole (Bottom of Casing to Bottom of Hole)
* 22 - Assumed Open Hole (Top of Bedrock to Bottom of Hole
* 27 - Reported Open Hole (Derived from Borehole Construction)
* 28 - Screen Information Omitted
* 123 - Assumed Screen ('Top of ?' Information Only)
* 124 - Temporary Test Interval 

Each of these are described below.  Note that some of these types are only used when there is a lack of information and various assumptions must be made.  In the case where there is no depths (of any kind) reported, no screen is assigned.

***Reported Screen (18)***

The top- and bottom-depth of the screen has been reported as part of the dataset.  This is used directly.

***Assumed Screen (Overburden Well 1ft Screen Assigned) (19)***

***Reported Open Hole (20)***

***Assumed Open Hole (Bottom of Casing to Bottom of Hole) (21)***

Casing information has been specified as part of the borehole construction information and bedrock has been intersected - no screen has been listed.  In this case, the screen interval is taken as the bottom of the casing to the bottom of the hole.

***Assumed Open Hole (Top of Bedrock to Bottom of Hole) (22)***

If this is a bedrock well (i.e. the borehole intersects bedrock), the screen interval is taken from the top of bedrock to the bottom of the hole.

****Reported Open Hole (Derived from Borehole Construction) (27)***

***Screen Information Omitted (28)***

No information is available (either reported or derived from construction details) to populate the top- and bottom-depths of the screen interval.  No record will appear in the D_INTERVAL_MONITOR table.

***Assumed Screen ('Top of ?' Information Only) (123)***

From borehole construction information, only a 'Top of ?' value is available (e.g. a top of plug depth has been specified but no depth).  In this case, a 1ft (0.3m) screen interval is assigned below this depth. 

***Temporary Test Interval (124)***

These intervals were only valid for a short time during well construction
and/or development and were subsequently removed.
