---
title:  "Appendix G.28"
author: "ormgpmd"
date:   "20220207"
output: html_document
knit:   (
            function(input_file, encoding) {
                out_dir <- '';
                rmarkdown::render(
                    input_file,
                    encoding=encoding,
                    output_file=file.path(dirname(input_file), out_dir,
                    'G_28.html')
                )
            }
        )
---

## G.28 Updating elevations in D_* tables

* Tables
    + D_BOREHOLE
    + D_BOREHOLE_CONSTRUCTION
    + D_GEOLOGY_FORMATION
    + D_GEOLOGY_LAYER
    + D_PICK
    + D_INTERVAL_REFERENCE_ELEVATION
    + D_INTERVAL_MONITOR
    + D_INTERVAL_SOIL
    + D_INTERVAL_TEMPORAL_2

* Views
    + V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DBOR
    + V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DBC
    + V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DGF
    + V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DGL
    + V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DPICK
    + V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DIRE
    + V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DIM
    + V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DIS
    + V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_D2

* Estimated Recurrence Time: Varies

For correction of elevations the value of BH_GND_ELEV in D_BOREHOLE must be populated and correct (a separate process; refer to Appendix G.4 for details).

Each of the views, above, are run in turn.

***V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DBOR (D_BOREHOLE)***

Calculates NEW_BH_BOTTOM_ELEV and NEW_BH_BOTTOM_DEPTH; returns a record if the former does not match the original BH_BOTTOM_ELEV.

***V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DBC (D_BOREHOLE_CONSTRUCTION)***

Calculates NEW_CON_TOP_ELEV and NEW_CON_BOT_ELEV; returns a record if either does not match the original (and respective) CON_TOP_ELEV or CON_BOT_ELEV.

***V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DGF (D_GEOLOGY_FORMATION)***

Calculates NEW_FEATURE_TOP_ELEV and NEW_FEATURE_BOT_ELEV; returns a record if either does not match the original (and respective) FEATURE_TOP_ELEV or FEATURE_BOT_ELEV.

***V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DGL (D_GEOLOGY_LAYER)***

Calculates NEW_GEOL_TOP_ELEV and NEW_GEOL_BOT_ELEV; returns a record if either does not match the original (and respective) GEOL_TOP_ELEV or GEOL_BOT_ELEV.

***V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DPICK (D_PICK)***

The difference between the ground elevation in D_PICK (GND_ELEV) and D_BOREHOLE (BH_GND_ELEV) is compared and stored in BE_PE_CMP_M if they do not match.  The recalculated pick top elevation is stored in BE_NEW_TOP_ELEV.  If BE_PE_CMP_M is not null then the ground elevation has changed and the pick should be updated.  Note that allow rows are returned (this is different than most of the other views here).

***V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DIRE (D_INTERVAL_REFERENCE_ELEVATION)***

This uses V_SYS_INT_REF_ELEV_RANGE as a source which calculates a new reference elevation REF_ELEV_BE_CMP (based upon BH_GND_ELEV and REF_STICK_UP).  This value is compared against the current REF_ELEV and stored in BE_RE_CMP_M - if this value is not null then the ground elevation has changed and the record should be updated.  Only records matching this case will be returned by the calling view.

***V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DIM (D_INTERVAL_MONITOR)***

Calculates NEW_MON_TOP_ELEV, NEW_MON_BOT_ELEV, NEW_MON_TOP_DEPTH_M and NEW_MON_BOT_DEPTH_M; returns a record if either of the calculated elevations do not match (respectively) MON_TOP_ELEV or MON_BOT_ELEV.

***V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_DIS (D_INTERVAL_SOIL)***

Calculates NEW_SOIL_TOP_ELEV, NEW_SOIL_BOT_ELEV, NEW_SOIL_TOP_M and NEW_SOIL_BOT_M; returns a record if either of the calculated elevations do not match (respectively) SOIL_TOP_ELEV or SOIL_BOT_ELEV.

***V_SYS_CHK_CORR_ELEV_D2 (D_INTERVAL_TEMPORAL_2)***

Calculates NEW_RD_VALUE for any record that has a UNIT_CODE of '6' (i.e. 'masl'); returns a record if this does not match the current RD_VALUE

