---
title:  "Appendix G.34"
author: "ormgpmd"
date:   "20220517"
output: html_document
knit:   (
            function(input_file, encoding) {
                out_dir <- '';
                rmarkdown::render(
                    input_file,
                    encoding=encoding,
                    output_file=file.path(dirname(input_file), out_dir,
                    'G_34.html')
                )
            }
        )
---

## G.34 Incorporation of Bedrock Elevations as Bedrock Picks

* Tables
    + D_BOREHOLE
    + D_PICK

* Views 
    + V_SYS_AGENCY_ORMGP
    + V_SYS_BH_BEDROCK_ELEV
    + V_SYS_LOC_COORDS
    + V_SYS_PICK_BEDROCK_TOP
    + V_SYS_RANDOM_ID_BULK_001

* Estimated Recurrence Time: As needed

For locations where a bedrock elevation has not been incorporated in the
D_PICK table through direct user interpretation, the value found in D_BOREHOLE
(BH_BEDROCK_ELEV) can be used instead.  Refer to Appendix G.7 for details
concerning how this field is populated.

For inclusion, these lcoations should be checked for being within the ORMGP
study area and having a QA_COORD_CODE that is less than '6' (which relates to
position accuracy).  In addition, V_SYS_BH_BEDROCK_ELEV is called to examine
the GEOL_SUBCLASS_CODE; this is used to tag those geologic layers that should
not be used for populating the D_PICK table.  Usually this relates to likely
invalid values that cannot be (or have not been) checked against their
original data sources.

This is accomplished through

    insert into d_pick
    ( loc_id, formation, gnd_elev, top_elev, sessionnum, data_id, sys_temp1, sys_temp2, sys_record_id )
    select
    t1.loc_id
    ,t1.formation
    ,t1.gnd_elev
    ,t1.top_elev
    ,t1.sessionnum
    ,t1.data_id
    ,t1.sys_temp1
    ,t1.sys_temp2
    ,t2.sri
    from 
    (
    select
    d.loc_id
    ,'Top of Bedrock' as formation
    ,d.ground_elev as gnd_elev
    ,d.bedrock_elev as top_elev
    ,503 as sessionnum
    ,240500503 as data_id
    ,'20220517a' as sys_temp1
    ,20220517 as sys_temp2
    ,row_number() over (order by d.loc_id) as rkey
    from 
    --d_borehole as d
    v_gen_borehole as d
    inner join v_sys_agency_ormgp as vorm
    on d.loc_id=vorm.loc_id
    inner join v_sys_loc_coords as vcoord
    on d.loc_id=vcoord.loc_id
    inner join v_sys_bh_bedrock_elev as vbed
    on d.loc_id=vbed.loc_id
    where
    vcoord.qa_coord_code< 6
    and d.bedrock_elev is not null
    and d.ground_elev is not null
    and d.loc_id not in
    ( select loc_id from v_sys_pick_bedrock_top )
    and ( vbed.geol_subclass_code is null or vbed.geol_subclass_code<>9 )
    and d.loc_id <> -2147483443
    ) as t1
    inner join
    (
    select
    t.sri
    ,row_number() over (order by t.sri) as rkey
    from 
    (
    select
    top 5000
    v.new_id as sri
    from 
    v_sys_random_id_bulk_001 as v
    where 
    v.new_id not in
    ( select sys_record_id from d_pick )
    ) as t
    ) as t2
    on t1.rkey=t2.rkey

Note that the SYS_TEMP1, SYS_TEMP2, DATA_ID and SESSIONNUM field values should be
modified to reflect the current date and a new import (escpecially with regard
for the latter).  In addition, the 'select ...' portion of the SQL statement
should be run to determine the number of records to be added.  This number
should be reflected in the 'top ...' part of the statement for generating
random identifiers.  

*Last Modified: 2022-05-17*
