---
title:  "Section 2.1.4"
author: "ormgpmd"
date:   "20220131"
output: html_document
knit:   (
            function(input_file, encoding) {
                out_dir <- '';
                rmarkdown::render(
                    input_file,
                    encoding=encoding,
                    output_file=file.path(dirname(input_file), out_dir,
                    '02_01_04_Views.html')
                )
            }
        )
---

## Section 2.1.4 View Outline

A series of views have been developed within the database to provide easier access to information (by removing the complexity of creating joined tables when querying the database).  In most cases, look-up values have been removed and replaced with their equivalent descriptions allowing direct perusal by the user.  Also, the location and/or interval name(s) (as appropriate) are found in almost all the views so that they may be filtered to obtain specific results.

Note that many of the field names carried in these views will be of a simplified form and, thus, different from those in the source tables (e.g. NAME for LOC_NAME: ALTERNATE_NAME for LOC_NAME_ALT1; X_UTMNAD83 and Y_UTMNAD83 for LOC_COORD_EASTING and LOC_COORD_NORTHING; etc?).

The views are broken into categories defined by a 3-letter code (in general) following the 'V_'.  These include:

#### V_CON_\*

* Consultant views. These results are meant to be used for submittal of information for consultants either through, for example, Excel spreadsheets or Access databases.  The rows returned are limited by the location and interval confidentiality codes.

#### V_GEN_\*

* General views.  These are meant to be used directly by the partner agencies; an effort has been made to identify data searches and formats required. 

#### V_GROUP_\*

* Group views.  These are meant to be used to identify and manage 'groups' within the database; that is, linked locations and intervals with common attributes (e.g. all PGMN wells by CA; nested wells; etc?).

#### V_QA_\*

* Quality Assurance views.  These are meant to be used to review 'new' locations and intervals as a quality check (this is considered to be any location or interval added in the last 60 days).

#### V_SUM_\*

* Summary Data views.  These calculate summary data for locations and intervals on-the-fly.  Some are used for tracking purposes (see D_VERSION_STATUS, above).

#### V_SYS_\*

* System views.  Many of these are used in combination with the above groups and should not, in the main, be used directly (there will be exceptions).  These views tend to honour the source field names and preferentially use lookup codes rather than the equivalent text descriptions.
* A subset of these, V_SYS_CHK_* are used for various data checks within the database.
* Another subset, V_SYS_ORMGP_* deals directly with locations and intervals associated with the ORMGP

#### V_VL_\*

* Viewlog views.  These views are directly tied to certain capabilities in the Viewlog software.

Note that additional views can be added at any time.  Partner agencies should request additions or modifications to existing views as well as the creation of new views that meet their requirements.

